The goal of this lab was to become familiar with the DE1-SoC linux machine and the C++ programming language used for script coding.

Binary to Decimal and Hexadecimal Converter:
  My partner and I began by initializing an 8-element array “binary[8]”, where each element was a bit for the user to input a range of binary digits (0 or 1). We then iterated through each successive bit in the “binary” array, from the first element to the 8th element, asking the user to input a value for each bit. We then used nested for loops to create our own power function. Starting from the 8th element to the first element, we multiplied 2 by itself x times, where x is the element number in the binary bit array. We then added the product of 2^x every time the bit value in the “binary” array was 1 to the “decimalValue” sum. Finally, we displayed this quantity in decimal form, then used the “hex” basefield to display the decimal number we created as a hexadecimal. The example we used was with the user input 01000111, as provided by our professor.

Decimal to Binary Converter:
  We began by creating an integer to store the user-inputted decimal number and a 32-bit array to store each bit of the decimal number’s binary conversion. We then created a for-loop to iterate through the array and continually divide the decimal number by two to give a result and a remainder of either a “1” or a “0” until the result equaled zero. These remainders were then saved as the appropriate bits of the binary number within the array. We then used another for loop to print out the binary number that we saved in the array. The example we used was the number 42, which was provided by our professor.

Number Converter with Menu:
  We began by displaying the user three options. The first option prompted the user to perform a binary to decimal conversion using the first script from earler. The second option prompted the user to perform a decimal to binary conversion using the second script from earlier. The third and final option exited the main menu and terminated the program. Each of these cases printed the memory address for each element in the arrays used for each selected choice. We used a switch-case statement to allow the user to input integers 1, 2, or 3, respective with the initial displayed list of three choices. An additional coding objective was to “loop back the main menu [1];” every time the code was finished executing the first or second choice, the code redirected the user back to the three choices, which also redirected to the beginning of the switch-case statement. We did this using a while-loop, where the nested switch-case code repeated itself as long as the user did not input a selection response of 3, which broke the while-loop and exited the program with a return value of 0. In the nature of the looped main menu, we included a “default:” instance in the switch-case statement, which prompted the user to reselect between choices 1, 2, or 3 if the user typed another response. 
  
Number Converter with Menu and Array Memory Printing:
  This script builds off of the earlier menu script by adding 2 functions, printArray and printAddress. Both functions replaced sections of the menu script to help make the code more readable.
